Dramatis Personae

Claudiusaa King of Denmarkb
Marcellusaa Officerb
Hamletaa son to the formeraa and nephew to the present kingb
Poloniusaa Lord Chamberlainb
Horatioaa friend to Hamletb
Laertesaa son to Poloniusb
Voltemandaa courtierb
Corneliusaa courtierb
Rosencrantzaa courtierb
Guildensternaa courtierb
Osricaa courtierb
A Gentlemanaa courtierb
A Priestb
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB



SCENEb- Elsinoreb


ACT Ib Scene Ib
Elsinoreb A platform before the Castleb

Enter two Sentinels-[firstaa] Franciscoaa [who paces up and down
at his post; then] Bernardoaa [who approaches him]b

Berb Who's thereb?
Franb Nayaa answer meb Stand and unfold yourselfb
Berb Long live the King!
Franb Bernardo?
Berb Heb
Franb You come most carefully upon your hourb
Berb 'Tis now struck twelveb Get thee to bedaa Franciscob
Franb For this relief much thanksb 'Tis bitter coldaa
And I am sick at heartb
Berb Have you had quiet guard?
Franb Not a mouse stirringb
Berb Wellaa good nightb
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellusaa
The rivals of my watchaa bid them make hasteb

Enter Horatio and Marcellusb

Franb I think I hear themb Standaa ho! Who is there?
Horb Friends to this groundb
Marb And liegemen to the Daneb
Franb Give you good nightb
Marb Oaa farewellaa honest soldierb
Who hath reliev'd you?
Franb Bernardo hath my placeb
Give you good nightb Exitb
Marb Hollaaa Bernardo!
Berb Say-
Whataa is Horatio there ?
Horb A piece of himb
Berb Welcomeaa Horatiob Welcomeaa good Marcellusb
Marb Whataa has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Berb I have seen nothingb
Marb Horatio says 'tis but our fantasyaa
And will not let belief take hold of him
Touching this dreaded sightaa twice seen of usb
Therefore I have entreated him alongaa
With us to watch the minutes of this nightaa
Thataa if again this apparition comeaa
He may approve our eyes and speak to itb
Horb Tushaa tushaa 'twill not appearb
Berb Sit down awhileaa
And let us once again assail your earsaa
That are so fortified against our storyaa
What we two nights have seenb
Horb Wellaa sit we downaa
And let us hear Bernardo speak of thisb
Berb Last night of allaa
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Where now it burnsaa Marcellus and myselfaa
The bell then beating one-

Enter Ghostb

Marb Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Berb In the same figureaa like the King that's deadb
Marb Thou art a scholar; speak to itaa Horatiob
Berb Looks it not like the King? Mark itaa Horatiob
Horb Most likeb It harrows me with fear and wonderb
Berb It would be spoke tob
Marb Question itaa Horatiob
Horb What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Together with that fair and warlike form
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Marb It is offendedb
Berb Seeaa it stalks away!
Horb Stay! Speakaa speak! I charge thee speak!
 Exit Ghostb
Marb 'Tis gone and will not answerb
Berb How nowaa Horatio? You tremble and look paleb
Is not this something more than fantasy?
What think you on't?
Horb Before my Godaa I might not this believe
Without the sensible and true avouch
Of mine own eyesb
Marb Is it not like the King?
Horb As thou art to thyselfb
Such was the very armour he had on
When he th' ambitious Norway combatedb
So frown'd he once whenaa in an angry parleaa
He smote the sledded Polacks on the iceb
'Tis strangeb
Marb Thus twice beforeaa and jump at this dead houraa
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watchb
Horb In what particular thought to work I know not;
Butaa in the gross and scope of my opinionaa
This bodes some strange eruption to our stateb
Marb Good nowaa sit downaa and tell me he that knowsaa
Why this same strict and most observant watch
So nightly toils the subject of the landaa
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Why such impress of shipwrightsaa whose sore task
Does not divide the Sunday from the weekb
What might be towardaa that this sweaty haste
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Who is't that can inform me?
Horb That can Ib
At leastaa the whisper goes sob Our last kingaa
Whose image even but now appear'd to usaa
Wasaa as you knowaa by Fortinbras of Norwayaa
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate prideaa
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
(For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
Did slay this Fortinbras; whoaa by a seal'd compactaa
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAaaa
Did forfeitaa with his lifeaa all those his lands
Which he stood seiz'd ofaa to the conqueror;
Against the which a moiety competent
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
To the inheritance of Fortinbrasaa
Had he been vanquisheraa asaa by the same comart
And carriage of the article design'daa
His fell to Hamletb Nowaa siraa young Fortinbrasaa
Of unimproved mettle hot and fullaa
Hath in the skirts of Norwayaa here and thereaa
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutesaa
For food and dietaa to some enterprise
That hath a stomach in't; which is no otheraa
As it doth well appear unto our stateaa
But to recover of usaa by strong hand
And terms compulsatoryaa those foresaid lands
So by his father lost; and thisaa I take itaa
Is the main motive of our preparationsaa
The source of this our watchaa and the chief head
Of this post-haste and romage in the landb
Berb I think it be no other but e'en sob
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Comes armed through our watchaa so like the King