
Comes armed through our watchaa so like the King












Berb Long live the King!
Horb Stay! Speakaa speak! I charge thee speak!
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Marb Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Marb Hollaaa Bernardo!
Berb Seeaa it stalks away!
(For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
The bell then beating one-
Berb Say-
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Which he stood seiz'd ofaa to the conqueror;
Horb In what particular thought to work I know not;
Whataa is Horatio there ?
Berb Who's thereb?
Berb Have you had quiet guard?
Who is't that can inform me?
Franb I think I hear themb Standaa ho! Who is there?
Marb Is it not like the King?
Franb Bernardo?
What think you on't?
Marb Whataa has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Who hath reliev'd you?
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Is not this something more than fantasy?
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAaaa
And carriage of the article design'daa
Franb For this relief much thanksb 'Tis bitter coldaa
So nightly toils the subject of the landaa
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate prideaa
Berb Sit down awhileaa
So frown'd he once whenaa in an angry parleaa
Thataa if again this apparition comeaa
Hath in the skirts of Norwayaa here and thereaa
As it doth well appear unto our stateaa
Where now it burnsaa Marcellus and myselfaa
At leastaa the whisper goes sob Our last kingaa
Therefore I have entreated him alongaa
Berb Last night of allaa
Of unimproved mettle hot and fullaa
Butaa in the gross and scope of my opinionaa
Horb Wellaa sit we downaa
That hath a stomach in't; which is no otheraa
Marb Thus twice beforeaa and jump at this dead houraa
To the inheritance of Fortinbrasaa
His fell to Hamletb Nowaa siraa young Fortinbrasaa
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutesaa
Is the main motive of our preparationsaa
And let us once again assail your earsaa
Whose image even but now appear'd to usaa
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellusaa
Marb Good nowaa sit downaa and tell me he that knowsaa
Did slay this Fortinbras; whoaa by a seal'd compactaa
With us to watch the minutes of this nightaa
So by his father lost; and thisaa I take itaa
Wasaa as you knowaa by Fortinbras of Norwayaa
That are so fortified against our storyaa
Marb Horatio says 'tis but our fantasyaa
ACT Ib Scene Ib
Horb That can Ib
at his post; then] Bernardoaa [who approaches him]b
Berb In the same figureaa like the King that's deadb
Marb It is offendedb
When he th' ambitious Norway combatedb
Of this post-haste and romage in the landb
Horb Friends to this groundb
Berb Heb
Franb Bernardo hath my placeb
He smote the sledded Polacks on the iceb
'Tis strangeb
Berb How nowaa Horatio? You tremble and look paleb
Elsinoreb A platform before the Castleb
Marb And liegemen to the Daneb
SCENEb- Elsinoreb
This bodes some strange eruption to our stateb
The rivals of my watchaa bid them make hasteb
Franb Nayaa answer meb Stand and unfold yourselfb
Horb As thou art to thyselfb
Berb I have seen nothingb
Hamletaa son to the formeraa and nephew to the present kingb
Franb Not a mouse stirringb
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watchb
Does not divide the Sunday from the weekb
Claudiusaa King of Denmarkb
Horb A piece of himb
What we two nights have seenb
Poloniusaa Lord Chamberlainb
Berb 'Tis now struck twelveb Get thee to bedaa Franciscob
Berb Looks it not like the King? Mark itaa Horatiob
Marb Question itaa Horatiob
Marb Thou art a scholar; speak to itaa Horatiob
Berb I think it be no other but e'en sob
Berb It would be spoke tob
Horb Tushaa tushaa 'twill not appearb
Marcellusaa Officerb
Horb Most likeb It harrows me with fear and wonderb
Marb Oaa farewellaa honest soldierb
Osricaa courtierb
Voltemandaa courtierb
A Gentlemanaa courtierb
Guildensternaa courtierb
Corneliusaa courtierb
Rosencrantzaa courtierb
Marb 'Tis gone and will not answerb
Franb You come most carefully upon your hourb
Of mine own eyesb
And let us hear Bernardo speak of thisb
Touching this dreaded sightaa twice seen of usb
Laertesaa son to Poloniusb
Enter Horatio and Marcellusb
Berb Welcomeaa Horatiob Welcomeaa good Marcellusb
Horatioaa friend to Hamletb
Berb Wellaa good nightb
Franb Give you good nightb
He may approve our eyes and speak to itb
Give you good nightb Exitb
And I am sick at heartb
A Priestb
Enter Ghostb
 Exit Ghostb
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
The source of this our watchaa and the chief head
But to recover of usaa by strong hand
Dramatis Personae
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
For food and dietaa to some enterprise
What might be towardaa that this sweaty haste
Horb Before my Godaa I might not this believe
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Without the sensible and true avouch
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Why such impress of shipwrightsaa whose sore task
And will not let belief take hold of him
Together with that fair and warlike form
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Such was the very armour he had on
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
Enter two Sentinels-[firstaa] Franciscoaa [who paces up and down
And terms compulsatoryaa those foresaid lands
Did forfeitaa with his lifeaa all those his lands
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Horb What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Against the which a moiety competent
Had he been vanquisheraa asaa by the same comart